this is 6am
freezing my ass off west coast of canada
walking to the gym why would i do that
to myself
why would i put myself out here on the
block my fingers and toes and nose numb
in this cold beneath this strangely
bright white overcast sky
first thing in the morning
just to go and do
200 push-ups on my knuckles
on a rubberized floor
at a time of day
when it can be guaranteed
there will not even be one
good looking woman at the aforementioned
gym
at a time when the only people working
out there
are basically endurance athlete nerds
who bring their tie to the gym
to change into their office apparel at
about 6 45 a.m and go off to their
respectable jobs
well i go back to my apartment
with my gorgeous 25 year old friend to
do
youtube
why would i do this to myself this is
the fundamental reason old man
some of us are up at 6 00 am
walking to the gym
and some of us are on youtube
feeling sorry for ourselves on a whole
another level people think the
difference between discipline and
self-discipline
is the difference between
mustard
and dijon
mustard and it's not
nothing could be further from the truth
what you've got to learn in this life
is to laugh at and sneer
and spit on discipline
and to value self-discipline
and this is exactly nickel god i have a
goddess problem in life i see you
breaking down weeping in one video after
another old man i
just want to be normal and i'm not
adorable the last time i talked to orly
he just told me to jump off the roof
i'm disgusting i'm so ugly look at me i
[ __ ] have this double chin i've
worked so hard
trying to lose my weight to get rid of
my double chin
given the fact that you clicked on this
video this is a situation most likely
you already know nicoto avocado
is an ex-vegan and he's been coming on
youtube he's been coming on the internet
uploading videos
weeping
crying for help
saying in effect somebody fix me i'm
broken
but why
number one
he feels unlovable
number two
he actually is unlovable number three he
is aware of points one and 0.2
but he is not sure of what to do about
it he knows about the problem he does
not yet know the solution he's at that
dangerous level
of enlightenment and ignorance
where he knows enough that he can
accurately perceive himself as sub-human
garbage also
but feels powerless he knows not what to
do about this fact
the difference between discipline and
self-discipline
is the difference between being the
commander or the general
in your own army
and being the lazy piece of [ __ ]
that the army commander has to scream at
while he's doing push-ups
that the other soldiers have to roll out
of bed
where other people have to pick you up
explain to you why you're motivated
we're basically you're like
the psychological equivalent of a leech
not sucking the blood out of other
people
but sucking something out of them that
they're probably much more reluctant
to give away than their blood
their own sense of will
and direction other people have exactly
what you lack
even
in accomplishing the things you do want
to accomplish yourself
let alone
those things that you lack
the foresight or vision to realize
you ought to want to accomplish
grocery store isn't even open yet
this doesn't just apply to doing
push-ups in the gym of course
people who lack self-discipline
those are going to be the people who pay
to go to a language school
not to have a teacher explain the
language to them not to have the teacher
provide them with the tools
they need to learn the language but
precisely for the school to provide them
with
deadlines expectation
peer pressure even
basically these are people
who lack the ability to direct and
motivate and govern themselves and spend
their whole lives trying to sell
themselves into a kind of slavery
whether that's with uh
a boyfriend or a girlfriend who goes
into a higher standard whether that's
with a university professor language
teacher
maybe they have a trainer at the gym
maybe they have someone they look up to
who can hold them that higher standard
but uh these are people who are going to
spend their whole lives
looking around outside themselves for
some of the rest of us are going to find
within
it should be obvious to all of you by
now that we are discussing a problem
that cannot be solved through diet and
exercise
as much as i might love to pretend to
solve this problem by selling you a copy
of my ebook for 17.99
so that you also can learn how to do 200
push-ups a day on your knuckles by
supposedly following uh black and white
diagrams and
getting a few paragraphs of meaningless
pep talk in bold italic text
interspersed with anecdotes about my
unbelievably awesome life
that's actually not the way to go
in this specific scenario again the
fundamental solution for being a
terrible person is not to work on the
optics is not to try to tackle the fact
that people perceive you as unlovable as
a scumbag as garbage as a terrible
person but to work on the fact that you
uh you actually are a terrible person so
those of you who follow me on twitter
will notice i said this a couple times
in the last few days
what uh diet and exercise can do for you
is offer a very limited and very shallow
change
in your personal appearance and by
contrast changing who you actually are
is profound
and seemingly unlimited so in talking
about discipline and self-discipline
it's much the same whether we're talking
about uh something intangible and
ethical and philosophical like veganism
or something entirely tangible like
doing 200 push-ups a day
it's not the same thing if you only
become vegan because your boyfriend or
your girlfriend already was vegan and
forces you to be vegan against your will
and in accordance with their will that's
their self-discipline that's them
dominating you now there is a further
wrinkle to this because uh nicotta is
currently living under the delusion
that he eats food for a living that
people pay to watch him eat food and
you're wrong nick
your job what you're paid to do is to
come on the internet and talk about your
feelings
you don't do a cooking show man nobody
nobody really can possibly be so
ignorant that they don't know
what a miserable fat dude eating a
mcdonald's hamburger looks like most of
us see that every day that's not what
the show is man the show ultimately is
you the question of whether or not you
should be vegan become vegan again
ultimately doesn't have to do with the
food doesn't have to do with the animals
doesn't have to do with ecology it
doesn't even have to do with your health
it has to do with you it has to do with
what kind of human being do you want to
be
you showing a sense of responsibility
that you don't just want to be a
you don't just want to be a mindless
consumer
you want to at the bare minimum
be a mindful consumer
that's that's not a lot to ask nick it
doesn't really matter whether you think
of this optimistically or
pessimistically
but on the level of practical philosophy
the good news is
you can change
who you are
you can be in your own eyes
a good person
rather than a contemptible piece of
garbage
but the way to do that
is by changing who you are
but fundamentally becoming
a good person not raising your
self-esteem not making yourself appear
to be a good person in the eyes of
others
but uh
making a change
that starts with what for some people is
a crushing and demoralizing realization
of uh
just who it is they are right now just
what it is that needs to be changed
just all of the
assumptions and excuses
in your life
that have to be discarded
and you know some people are broken by
that
some people
never come back
habits don't define who you are
but they exhibit
who you are
and with time
not even all that much time
you become the reflected image
of your habits
and that happens relatively quickly
with the habit of going to the gym with
diet and exercise
but it happens
instantaneously
with the habits of the mind
so yeah nick
you can change
you can be a different person
you can be a better person
you can be a good person
question we all get asked now is uh
will you
ah ba le ciel